packages/docs/src/content/docs/components/upload-widget/index.mdx, before:

---
title: <CldUploadWidget />
---

The `CldUploadWidget` creates a new instance of the [Cloudinary upload widget](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget) giving you an easy way to add upload capabilities to your Svelte app.

![upload widget screenshot]($assets/upload-widget-preview.png)

The widget will not render any UI by default, instead needing to have the `open` function called. The simplest way to do this is to nest a button inside a slot and use the `open` slot prop. There are two options when using the CldUploadWidget: signed and unsigned. These options allow you to control the amount of security and restrictions you place on uploads.

## Unsigned

Providing that unsigned uploads are allowed for your `uploadPreset` you can simply do:

```svelte
<script>
	import { CldUploadWidget } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
</script>

<CldUploadWidget uploadPreset="<your upload preset>" let:open let:isLoading>
	<button on:click={() => open()} disabled={isLoading}>
		Open the widget
	</button>
</CldUploadWidget>
```

## Signed

Signing upload requests require a signature endpoint which uses your Cloudinary secret key to sign the upload request. The following example uses SvelteKit but you can use any server framework to write this:

You'll need to make sure you've configured a Cloudinary API key both on client and server. We can [configure that globally](/get-started#configuring) or on a component level, we'll use the latter for this example:

```svelte
<script>
	import { CldUploadWidget } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
	import {
		PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
		PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
	} from '$env/static/public';
</script>

<CldUploadWidget
	uploadPreset="<your upload preset>"
	signatureEndpoint="/api/sign-cloudinary-params"
	config={{
		cloud: {
			cloudName: PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
			apiKey: PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
		},
	}}
	let:open
	let:isLoading
>
	<button on:click={() => open()} disabled={isLoading}>
		Open the widget
	</button>
</CldUploadWidget>
```

```ts
// src/routes/api/sign-cloudinary-params/+server.ts
import { CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET } from '$env/static/private';
import { v2 as cloudinary } from 'cloudinary';
import { error, json } from '@sveltejs/kit';

export const POST = async ({ request }) => {
	const body = await request.json();
	const { paramsToSign } = body;

	try {
		const signature = cloudinary.utils.api_sign_request(
			paramsToSign,
			CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
		);

		return json({ signature });
	} catch (e) {
		return error(500, `${error}`);
	}
};
```

## Events

| Prop              | Type                         |                                                                                           |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `abort`           | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#abort)           |
| `batch-cancelled` | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#batch_cancelled) |
| `close`           | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#close_event)     |
| `display-changed` | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#display_changed) |
| `error`           | `(error, options) => void`   |                                                                                           |
| `open`            | `(widget) => void`           |                                                                                           |
| `public-id`       | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#publicid)        |
| `queues-end`      | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#queues_end)      |
| `queues-start`    | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#queues_start)    |
| `retry`           | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#retry)           |
| `show-completed`  | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#show_completed)  |
| `source-changed`  | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#source_changed)  |
| `success`         | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#success)         |
| `tags`            | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#tags)            |
| `upload-added`    | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#upload_added)    |

## Slot Props

| Prop               | Type         | Description                                                            |
| ------------------ | ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isLoading`        | `boolean`    | Designates whether the upload widget is loading and initializing.      |
| `cloudinary`       | `Cloudinary` | The Cloudinary instance which creates and manages the Widget instance. |
| `widget`           | `Widget`     | The widget instance attached to the current component.                 |
| [Instance Methods] | n/a          | See [Instance Methods](#instance-methods) below                        |

## Instance Methods

| Prop          | Type       | Description                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `close`       | `function` | Closes and resets the widget to its initial state without removing it from memory.                                 |
| `show`        | `function` | Renders a previously hidden widget.                                                                                |
| `open`        | `function` | Renders an existing widget currently in memory, but that is not currently displayed.                               |
| `destroy`     | `function` | Hides a previously rendered widget while retaining its current state in memory.                                    |
| `hide`        | `function` | Closes the widget and completely removes it from the DOM. Returns a promise that resolves upon cleanup completion. |
| `minimize`    | `function` | Minimizes the widget.                                                                                              |
| `update`      | `function` | Updates a widget currently in memory with new options.                                                             |
| `isDestroyed` | `function` | Returns whether the destroy method was called on this instance.                                                    |
| `isMinimized` | `function` | Returns whether the widget is currently minimized.                                                                 |
| `isShowing`   | `function` | Returns whether the widget is currently visible.                                                                   |

Commit message:

refactor: use props for events

packages/docs/src/content/docs/components/upload-widget/index.mdx, after:

---
title: <CldUploadWidget />
---

The `CldUploadWidget` creates a new instance of the [Cloudinary upload widget](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget) giving you an easy way to add upload capabilities to your Svelte app.

![upload widget screenshot]($assets/upload-widget-preview.png)

The widget will not render any UI by default, instead needing to have the `open` function called. The simplest way to do this is to nest a button inside a slot and use the `open` slot prop. There are two options when using the CldUploadWidget: signed and unsigned. These options allow you to control the amount of security and restrictions you place on uploads.

## Unsigned

Providing that unsigned uploads are allowed for your `uploadPreset` you can simply do:

```svelte
<script>
	import { CldUploadWidget } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
</script>

<CldUploadWidget uploadPreset="<your upload preset>" let:open let:isLoading>
	<button on:click={() => open()} disabled={isLoading}>
		Open the widget
	</button>
</CldUploadWidget>
```

## Signed

Signing upload requests require a signature endpoint which uses your Cloudinary secret key to sign the upload request. The following example uses SvelteKit but you can use any server framework to write this:

You'll need to make sure you've configured a Cloudinary API key both on client and server. We can [configure that globally](/get-started#configuring) or on a component level, we'll use the latter for this example:

```svelte
<script>
	import { CldUploadWidget } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
	import {
		PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
		PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
	} from '$env/static/public';
</script>

<CldUploadWidget
	uploadPreset="<your upload preset>"
	signatureEndpoint="/api/sign-cloudinary-params"
	config={{
		cloud: {
			cloudName: PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME,
			apiKey: PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_API_KEY,
		},
	}}
	let:open
	let:isLoading
>
	<button on:click={() => open()} disabled={isLoading}>
		Open the widget
	</button>
</CldUploadWidget>
```

```ts
// src/routes/api/sign-cloudinary-params/+server.ts
import { CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET } from '$env/static/private';
import { v2 as cloudinary } from 'cloudinary';
import { error, json } from '@sveltejs/kit';

export const POST = async ({ request }) => {
	const body = await request.json();
	const { paramsToSign } = body;

	try {
		const signature = cloudinary.utils.api_sign_request(
			paramsToSign,
			CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET,
		);

		return json({ signature });
	} catch (e) {
		return error(500, `${error}`);
	}
};
```

## Events

Events are passed in as props rather than using the `on:event` syntax:

| Event              | Type                         |                                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `onAbort`          | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#abort)           |
| `onBatchCancelled` | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#batch_cancelled) |
| `onClose`          | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#close_event)     |
| `onDisplayChanged` | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#display_changed) |
| `onError`          | `(error, options) => void`   |                                                                                           |
| `onOpen`           | `(widget) => void`           |                                                                                           |
| `onPublicId`       | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#publicid)        |
| `onQueuesEnd`      | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#queues_end)      |
| `onQueuesStart`    | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#queues_start)    |
| `onRetry`          | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#retry)           |
| `onShowCompleted`  | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#show_completed)  |
| `onSourceChanged`  | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#source_changed)  |
| `onSuccess`        | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#success)         |
| `onTags`           | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#tags)            |
| `onUploadAdded`    | `(results, options) => void` | [More Info](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/upload_widget_reference#upload_added)    |

## Slot Props

| Prop               | Type         | Description                                                            |
| ------------------ | ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `isLoading`        | `boolean`    | Designates whether the upload widget is loading and initializing.      |
| `cloudinary`       | `Cloudinary` | The Cloudinary instance which creates and manages the Widget instance. |
| `widget`           | `Widget`     | The widget instance attached to the current component.                 |
| [Instance Methods] | n/a          | See [Instance Methods](#instance-methods) below                        |

## Instance Methods

| Prop          | Type       | Description                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `close`       | `function` | Closes and resets the widget to its initial state without removing it from memory.                                 |
| `show`        | `function` | Renders a previously hidden widget.                                                                                |
| `open`        | `function` | Renders an existing widget currently in memory, but that is not currently displayed.                               |
| `destroy`     | `function` | Hides a previously rendered widget while retaining its current state in memory.                                    |
| `hide`        | `function` | Closes the widget and completely removes it from the DOM. Returns a promise that resolves upon cleanup completion. |
| `minimize`    | `function` | Minimizes the widget.                                                                                              |
| `update`      | `function` | Updates a widget currently in memory with new options.                                                             |
| `isDestroyed` | `function` | Returns whether the destroy method was called on this instance.                                                    |
| `isMinimized` | `function` | Returns whether the widget is currently minimized.                                                                 |
| `isShowing`   | `function` | Returns whether the widget is currently visible.                                                                   |
