---
title: Migrate to v2
---

This guide will cover any breaking changes or features that are deprecated. If there is anything with missed, or you have any issues then [let us know](https://github.com/cloudinary-community/svelte-cloudinary/issues/new/choose).

There were significant type improvements to this package, which may cause issues where something was previously incorrectly or loosely typed. Please report any major issues you come accross so we can add it to this guide. We'd recommend running [`svelte-check`](https://npmjs.com/svelte-check) on your codebase to help catch some of these issues.

:::note
This guide is a work in progress
:::

## Configuration

svelte-cloudinary now uses the `configureCloudinary` function to configure which only works in Svelte components currently. We don't load automatically from envrionment variables so we can maximise support for different bundlers and non-SvelteKit users. To recreate the previous behaviour you can simple add the following code to your top-level Svelte component (or layout if you're using SvelteKit):

```svelte
<script>
  import { PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME } from '$env/static/public';
  import { configureCloudinary } from 'svelte-cloudinary';

  configureCloudinary(PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME);
</script>
```

Read more about [Configuring Svelte Cloudinary here](https://svelte.cloudinary.dev/get-started#configuring).

## CldImage

### transformations

`transformations` has been deprecated in favour of `namedTransformations` and will be removed in the next version.

## CldUploadWidget

### Events

The `onUpload` event has now been deprecated, and you should use `onSuccess` which has the exact same behaviour. `onUpload` will be removed in the next major version.

The `onClose` event now follows the same pattern as the other events:

```diff lang="svelte"
- <CldUploadWidget onClose={(widget) => ...} />
+ <CldUploadWidget onClose={(results, options) => ...} />
```

## CldVideoPlayer

### playerRef

The `playerRef` prop has been renamed to `player`, and is still readonly.

### videoRef

The `videoRef` prop has been renamed to `videoElement`, and is still readonly.

### Version Prop

The `version` prop has been removed and is now controlled and updated internally.
