packages/docs/src/content/docs/components/video-player/index.mdx, before:

---
title: <CldVideoPlayer />
---

import { CldVideoPlayer } from 'svelte-cloudinary';

The `CldVideoPlayer` can be used to embed Cloudinary videos using the [Cloudinary Video Player](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/cloudinary_video_player).

## Basic Usage

The only required props are `width`, `height`, and `src`:

<CldVideoPlayer
	width="1920"
	height="1080"
	src="videos/mountain-stars"
	config={import.meta.env.VITE_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME}
	client:load
/>

```svelte
<script>
	import { CldVideoPlayer } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
</script>

<CldVideoPlayer width="1920" height="1080" src="videos/mountain-stars" />
```

## Events

Events are passed in as props rather than using the `on:event` syntax:

| Event            | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `onError`        | Fires when an error in video playback occurs |
| `onDataLoad`     | Fires when video data is loaded              |
| `onMetadataLoad` | Fires when video metadata is loaded          |
| `onPause`        | Fires when the video is paused               |
| `onPlay`         | Fires when the video is played               |
| `onEnded`        | Fires when the video ends                    |

Commit message:

fix: align video player events

packages/docs/src/content/docs/components/video-player/index.mdx, after:

---
title: <CldVideoPlayer />
---

import { CldVideoPlayer } from 'svelte-cloudinary';

The `CldVideoPlayer` can be used to embed Cloudinary videos using the [Cloudinary Video Player](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/cloudinary_video_player).

## Basic Usage

The only required props are `width`, `height`, and `src`:

<CldVideoPlayer
	width="1920"
	height="1080"
	src="videos/mountain-stars"
	config={import.meta.env.VITE_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME}
	client:load
/>

```svelte
<script>
	import { CldVideoPlayer } from 'svelte-cloudinary';
</script>

<CldVideoPlayer width="1920" height="1080" src="videos/mountain-stars" />
```

## Events

Events are passed in as props rather than using the `on:event` syntax. Every event current recieves an object with the `player` and `video` element:

| Event            | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `onError`        | Fires when an error in video playback occurs |
| `onDataLoad`     | Fires when video data is loaded              |
| `onMetadataLoad` | Fires when video metadata is loaded          |
| `onPause`        | Fires when the video is paused               |
| `onPlay`         | Fires when the video is played               |
| `onEnded`        | Fires when the video ends                    |
